# DRESSCode

DRESSCode, short for Data Reduction of Extended Swift Sources, is a fully automated reduction pipeline to reduce Swift UVOT images of extended sources. It consists of a series of python scripts that perform the different steps of the data reduction pipeline to all images. This requires a proper installation of python. The code has been written and tested on Linux (Ubuntu 16.04), using python 3.6.8. The code uses several tasks from the specialised HEASoft software, provided by NASA, which can be downloaded from the HEASARC website: https://heasarc.nasa.gov/lheasoft/download.html. The installation guide and user manual `DRESSCode_UserManual.pdf` goes through the HEASoft installation step by step. DRESSCode has been written and tested for HEASoft version 6.25. An older/later version could work as well, but possibly some minor changes are needed to the scripts.

The different steps of the data reduction pipeline include preparation, creation of sky images, aspect correction, creation of auxiliary maps, combination of separate frames, several corrections to the flux, combination of different observing periods, calibration, and aperture correction. DRESSCode is a two-phase pipeline, which means that some steps are repeated a second time, in order to improve the accuracy of the astrometry of the images. A slightly older version of the pipeline (with only one phase) is described in Decleir et al. (2019), MNRAS, 486, 743. Updates will be published soon.

In order to execute the full pipeline exactly as described in the manual, it is recommended to keep the same directory structure as explained in the manual. The user then only needs to change the galaxy name and the path of the main directory in the configuration file `config.txt` before running the scripts. 

See `DRESSCode_UserManual.pdf` for installation instructions and user manual.
